# bike_dataride_exploration
### Dataset: 
This report contained summary findings and insights gotten from exploring the Ford Gobike system dataset. This data set includes information about individual rides made in a bike-sharing system covering the greater San Francisco Bay area. The data was provided in project 3 of the Udacity ALX data analysis program. The data contained 183412 rows of recorded bike rides with 16 columns that included variables such as start_station_id, start_station_name, start_station_latitude,start_station_longitude,end_station_id, end_station_name,end_station_latitude,end_station_longitude
To get the data ready for analysis, I did some data cleaning and feature engineering to extract more variables that aided this analysis. Data cleaning involved identification and removal of missing data and changing variables datatypes. For feature engineering, I extracted more features such as distance, age, speed, start and end week day etc. I also dropped some columns that I considered not to be relevant in my analysis.

### Summary of Findings: 
In the exploration, I found out that there are more subscribers than customers in the user type, more males than females, the number of bikers that do not share their rides is more than those that share riders and the rides mostly begin and ends on Thursday. The correlation between duration_sec and speed is negative. It can be deduced that as the speed increases, the duration sec reduces. Also, speed is positively correlated with distance_meter which suggest that as the distance increases, riders increased their speed. Perhaps to gain grounds and complete the ride. However, this correlation is slightly weak. Surprisingly, the correlation coefficient between age and other numerical variables is week across board. Perhaps, given the number of member ages that is arguable high and distorted. Reviewing relationships between other variables, I found that there the number of female users who are subscribers are more than those who are customers. It can also be inferred those subscribers loves sharing their bikes than customers, with a high proportion of users who share bikes been male. In addition, weekends has the longer rides duration than weekdays. Perhaps more people are in a hurry to get to work or use weekends to relax and exercise without the need to hasten up their trip. More distance are covered on Tuesday than any other days. This call for further drill down to find out the reason or if this is a case of an outlier. User types with high number of bike sharing tend not to covered more distance. It seems like non of the riders who are customers are willing to share their bikes
 
### Key Insights for Presentation: 

For the presentation, I focused on plotting the distribution of speed and distance to help me understand both variables. After which I plotted the distribution of the log transformed distance which gave a normal distributed plots. I proceeded to understanding other variables such as count of user_type, member_gender, bike_share_for_all_trip, start_weekday and end_weekday using the seaborn countplot function. I also looked at the relationship between speed and distance, speed and duration by plotting the seaborn regplot and scatterplot respectively. I used the pandas groupby function to figure out which day of the week had the longest bikes duration and did a violin plot to see the day with the longest distance traveled by riders. Finally, I proceeded to plotting the relationship between multivariable of distance, user type and bike sharing variables using the seaborn barpplot
